README.md, before:

# nordlynx-router
Instructions for creating a NordVPN router on any NordVPN supported linux distro using the nordlynx protocol.

As with all of my work, ymmv.

This is the sequence of steps I take to setup my NordVPN router vm using Debian 12 as the host os. I am working on a bash script to automate as much of this as possible, but that script is not a high priority right now. If/when I complete it, I will add it to this project.

Can you use a different distro? Probably. I'm sure these steps can be adapted to any distro on which the official nordvpn app can be installed.

Which nordvpn protocols or options can you use? You can use any protocol or option available in the nordvpn app.

I have uploaded a service I created to manage this connection. Follow the readme in the 'monitor-script' folder for instructions.

Although I have uploaded some config files, I encourage you to follow and learn the process for yourself.



## TL;DR

Start with a fresh Debian 12 install

Connect the WAN interface. Configure as dhcp

Install additional packages
  `$ sudo apt install iptables-persistent dnsmasq dnsmasq-utils`

Install NordVPN following instructions here:

https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20196094470929-Installing-NordVPN-on-Linux-distributions

Login to NordVPN following instructions here:

https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20226600447633-How-to-log-in-to-NordVPN-on-Linux-devices-without-a-GUI

Connect and configure the LAN interface as static without gateway.

Add iptables rules and save.

Configure DHCP server.

Enable forwarding.

Test

Enjoy


# Instructions

## What do you need?
  1. HOST - A host machine, vm, or container with at least 1 core, 96M RAM, 1G drive space, and 2 network intefaces for an lxc. *A vm or bare metal may require more. This requires testing.* This will become the VPN router.
  2. CLIENT - A client machine for testing. This can be any internet capable device that can be connected to the second network interface on the host.
  3. An internet connection that can be connected to the primary network interface in the host.

## So, here we go:

While conducting your install, **test connnectivity at _EVERY_ step**. Sometimes this will be on the host. Sometimes this will be on a client. I generally use ping for most of this, then add a browser to the test toward the end. If at any point you lose internet connectivity, stop and diagnose it at that point. This will make it easier to track down the issue. I will add some troubleshooting tips I came up with at the end of this writeup.

This guide assumes you are eoing this on a clean install with no added iptables rules.


**Step 1:**

Start with a fresh install of Debian 12, fully updated. **For now, only connect the internet facing interface**, which will be referred to as wan. If installing on bare metal, or any other method that would hinder copy/paste functionality, I recommend configuring over ssh so you can copy and paste.

Make sure the user you use to set this up is in sudoers.

If you want to use ssh to configure, make sure you have an ssh server installed. If you don't have an ssh server installed (Debian allows you to select it at install) you can install one now:

`$ sudo apt install openssh-server`
    

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 2:**

Install extra packages:
```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install iptables-persistent dnsmasq dnsmasq-utils
```
Test internet connetivity on host.


**Step 3:**

Install official NordVPN linux app. These are the commands from the official NordVPN website:
using curl

`$ sudo sh <(curl -sSf https://downloads.nordcdn.com/apps/linux/install.sh)`

using wget - (I prefer this over additionally installing curl)

`$ sudo sh <(wget -qO - https://downloads.nordcdn.com/apps/linux/install.sh)`

Login to nordvpn:
note: the linux without gui login instructions can be found at :

https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20226600447633-How-to-log-in-to-NordVPN-on-Linux-devices-without-a-GUI
    
Enter this command to produce a url to get the key:

`$ nordvpn login`

Copy the url and paste it into a browser.
    
Cancel the request to open an external link.
    
Right-click the "Continue" button and copy the link.
    
On the host terminal/ssh, paste the link into this command : (don't forget to add the double quote around the url )

`$ nordvpn login --callback "<link from Continue button>"`

You should receive a message that you have logged in.

Configure your nordvpn settings:

`$ nordvpn set ...`

A list of settings can be found here : https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20196094470929-Installing-NordVPN-on-Linux-distributions

Do not enable killswitch or autoconnect yet

_If you plan to configure over wan using ssh, be sure to whitelist port 22_

`$ nordvpn whitelist add port 22`

_...and for security, remove port 22 when you are done_

`$ nordvpn whitelist remove port 22`

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 4:**

Connect/configure LAN interface:

`$ sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces`

example -
```
# localhost
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# WAN
auto enp6s18
iface enp6s18 inet dhcp

# LAN
allow-hotplug enp6s19
iface enp6s19 inet static
        address 192.168.123.1/24 # this will be the subnet for your LAN
# if installing as an lxc on Proxmox, configure the LAN address here, not on the host.
```

Do not configure a gateway. The gateway is configured on WAN through dhcp.

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 5:**

Configure iptables rules to allow LAN traffic to use the vpn connection.
In addition to normal forwarding and nat rules, we need to add a rule to mark LAN connections so nordvpn allows them through the firewall.

Easy way:
download rules.v4 (above) and place in your /etc/iptables/ directory

Educational way:
Make sure nord vpn is not connected and killswitch is off before saving your rules:

`$ nordvpn d && nordvpn killswitch off`

Confirm no nordvpn rules are active:

`$ iptables -L`

Look for entries that say nordvpn

Add iptables rules and save:
```
$ # mark all connections from LAN for acceptance by nordvpn rules, in my case enp6s19
$ # you can set the comment to whatever value you want, or just leave it out
$ iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -i enp6s19 -j CONNMARK --set-mark 0xe1f1 -m comment --comment nordvpn
$
$ # basic forwarding rules, use nordlynx as WAN
$ iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o nordlynx -j MASQUERADE
$ iptables -A FORWARD -i enp6s19 -o nordlynx -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
$ iptables -A FORWARD -i enp6s19 -o nordlynx -j ACCEPT

$ # save the rules so they are persistent
$ iptables-save > /etc/iptables/rules.v4
```

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 6:**

Configure DHCP server on the LAN:

`$ nano /etc/dnsmasq.conf`
  
Uncomment '#interface=' and assign to your LAN interface:

`interface=enp6s19`

Uncomment 'dhcp-range=.....' and adjust to your subnet, range, and lease time:

`dhcp-range=192.168.55.50,192.168.55.100,12h`

The dhcp-range should match the LAN subnet. 

Save and exit.
  
Test internet connectivity on host.

Check the client to make sure it is being assigned an ip address. Even though you won't have internet access from the client yet, it should be assigned an ip address at this point. 

`$ ip a`

Look for your lan interface and verify it has an address on your subnet(dhcp-range). If not, you may need to whitelist ports 67 and maybe 68 for dnsmasq to work. Thank you @Kenny606 for this tidbit. 

server port:

`$ nordvpn whitelist add port 67`

client port: (if still broken after whitelist port 67)

`$ nordvpn whitelist add port 68`


**Step 7:**

Enable ipv4 forwarding:

`$ nano /etc/sysctl.conf`

Uncomment 'inet.ipv4.ip_forward=1'
      
If you want to disable ipv6 add the following to the end of the file:
```
# Disable ipv6
net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6 = 1
```

Save and exit.

Test internet connectivity on host and client.


**Step 8:**

Enable killswitch and autoconnect:
```
$ nordvpn set killswitch on
$ nordvpn set autoconnect on
```

At this point you can see how the kill switch works by disconnecting the vpn `$ nordvpn d` and then testing on a client.


**Step 9:**

If all went well, you are done.

ENJOY!


## TIPS

These tips should be helpful for others like me who suffer from imanidiot syndrome flareups

If you can ping the LAN interface on the vpn but not beyond (WAN,internet,etc) from a client on the LAN:
1. open /etc/sysctl.conf and make sure you have umcommented/enabled net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
I personally have been guilty of going too fast and not reading, which caused me to uncomment the wrong ipv4 line.
I actually did that while following and editing this.
2. inspect your iptables rules on the vpn lxc/vm/machine, you should have 3 rules in your /etc/iptables/rules.v4 file. Double check your work in STEP 5.

If you can ping an ip address but not a domain name:
1. check your DNS settings. Double check your work up to STEP 3.

Commit message:

Removed mangle rule
Research and testing have shown the mangle rule is not needed

README.md, after:

# nordlynx-router
Instructions for creating a NordVPN router on any NordVPN supported linux distro using the nordlynx protocol.

As with all of my work, ymmv.

This is the sequence of steps I take to setup my NordVPN router vm using Debian 12 as the host os. I am working on a bash script to automate as much of this as possible, but that script is not a high priority right now. If/when I complete it, I will add it to this project.

Can you use a different distro? Probably. I'm sure these steps can be adapted to any distro on which the official nordvpn app can be installed.

Which nordvpn protocols or options can you use? You can use any protocol or option available in the nordvpn app.

I have uploaded a service I created to manage this connection. Follow the readme in the 'monitor-script' folder for instructions.

Although I have uploaded some config files, I encourage you to follow and learn the process for yourself.



## TL;DR

Start with a fresh Debian 12 install

Connect the WAN interface. Configure as dhcp

Install additional packages
  `$ sudo apt install iptables-persistent dnsmasq dnsmasq-utils`

Install NordVPN following instructions here:

https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20196094470929-Installing-NordVPN-on-Linux-distributions

Login to NordVPN following instructions here:

https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20226600447633-How-to-log-in-to-NordVPN-on-Linux-devices-without-a-GUI

Connect and configure the LAN interface as static without gateway.

Add iptables rules and save.

Configure DHCP server.

Enable forwarding.

Test

Enjoy


# Instructions

## What do you need?
  1. HOST - A host machine, vm, or container with at least 1 core, 96M RAM, 1G drive space, and 2 network intefaces for an lxc. *A vm or bare metal may require more. This requires testing.* This will become the VPN router.
  2. CLIENT - A client machine for testing. This can be any internet capable device that can be connected to the second network interface on the host.
  3. An internet connection that can be connected to the primary network interface in the host.

## So, here we go:

While conducting your install, **test connnectivity at _EVERY_ step**. Sometimes this will be on the host. Sometimes this will be on a client. I generally use ping for most of this, then add a browser to the test toward the end. If at any point you lose internet connectivity, stop and diagnose it at that point. This will make it easier to track down the issue. I will add some troubleshooting tips I came up with at the end of this writeup.

This guide assumes you are eoing this on a clean install with no added iptables rules.


**Step 1:**

Start with a fresh install of Debian 12, fully updated. **For now, only connect the internet facing interface**, which will be referred to as wan. If installing on bare metal, or any other method that would hinder copy/paste functionality, I recommend configuring over ssh so you can copy and paste.

Make sure the user you use to set this up is in sudoers.

If you want to use ssh to configure, make sure you have an ssh server installed. If you don't have an ssh server installed (Debian allows you to select it at install) you can install one now:

`$ sudo apt install openssh-server`
    

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 2:**

Install extra packages:
```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install iptables-persistent dnsmasq dnsmasq-utils
```
Test internet connetivity on host.


**Step 3:**

Install official NordVPN linux app. These are the commands from the official NordVPN website:
using curl

`$ sudo sh <(curl -sSf https://downloads.nordcdn.com/apps/linux/install.sh)`

using wget - (I prefer this over additionally installing curl)

`$ sudo sh <(wget -qO - https://downloads.nordcdn.com/apps/linux/install.sh)`

Login to nordvpn:
note: the linux without gui login instructions can be found at :

https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20226600447633-How-to-log-in-to-NordVPN-on-Linux-devices-without-a-GUI
    
Enter this command to produce a url to get the key:

`$ nordvpn login`

Copy the url and paste it into a browser.
    
Cancel the request to open an external link.
    
Right-click the "Continue" button and copy the link.
    
On the host terminal/ssh, paste the link into this command : (don't forget to add the double quote around the url )

`$ nordvpn login --callback "<link from Continue button>"`

You should receive a message that you have logged in.

Configure your nordvpn settings:

`$ nordvpn set ...`

A list of settings can be found here : https://support.nordvpn.com/hc/en-us/articles/20196094470929-Installing-NordVPN-on-Linux-distributions

Do not enable killswitch or autoconnect yet

_If you plan to configure over wan using ssh, be sure to whitelist port 22_

`$ nordvpn whitelist add port 22`

_...and for security, remove port 22 when you are done_

`$ nordvpn whitelist remove port 22`

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 4:**

Connect/configure LAN interface:

`$ sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces`

example -
```
# localhost
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# WAN
auto enp6s18
iface enp6s18 inet dhcp

# LAN
allow-hotplug enp6s19
iface enp6s19 inet static
        address 192.168.123.1/24 # this will be the subnet for your LAN
# if installing as an lxc on Proxmox, configure the LAN address here, not on the host.
```

Do not configure a gateway. The gateway is configured on WAN through dhcp.

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 5:**  *UPDATED April 13, 2024*

Configure iptables rules to allow LAN traffic to use the vpn connection.
In addition to normal forwarding and nat rules, we need to add a rule to mark LAN connections so nordvpn allows them through the firewall.

Easy way:
download rules.v4 (above) and place in your /etc/iptables/ directory

Educational way:
Make sure nord vpn is not connected and killswitch is off before saving your rules:

`$ nordvpn d && nordvpn killswitch off`

Confirm no nordvpn rules are active:

`$ iptables -L`

Look for entries that say nordvpn

Add iptables rules and save:

```
$ # this first rule marks all connections from LAN, in my case enp6s19
$ # I mistaken thought I needed this rule for traffic to be accepted by nordvpn rules
$ # you can set the comment to whatever value you want, or just leave it out
$ # as of my testing on 2024-04-13, YOU DO NOT NEED THIS RULE, see explanation below
$ iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -i enp6s19 -j CONNMARK --set-mark 0xe1f1 -m comment --comment nordvpn

$ # however, you DO need these rules
$ # basic forwarding rules, use nordlynx as WAN
$ iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o nordlynx -j MASQUERADE
$ iptables -A FORWARD -i enp6s19 -o nordlynx -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
$ iptables -A FORWARD -i enp6s19 -o nordlynx -j ACCEPT

$ # save the rules so they are persistent
$ iptables-save > /etc/iptables/rules.v4
```

*****SIDE NOTE:*** 
TL;DR  - I was wrong about needing the mangle rule, and killswitch is always on

In my efforts to better understand this myself, I have learned that I didn't completely understand how routing works with regards to iptables. It seems I'm wrong about needing the mangle rule that marks connections as FORWARD traffic should never reach the INPUT or OUTPUT tables where nordvpn puts its rules(see diagram below). In fact, the main reason I thought it worked was because of the kill switch feature, which actually does nothing in this setup. The FORWARD traffic is being directed through the nordlynx interface, which ceases to pass traffic any time nordvpn disconnects, regardless of killswitch state. If you want to be able to pass traffic while nordvpn is down, you need to add FORWARD rules using your wan interface instead of the nordlynx interface. I don't have a clue how to do that with iptables without using a script that monitors the nordvpn state and dynamically adds/removes those rules when the vpn goes down/up depending on if killswitch is enabled, if that's even possible. I have no interest in disabling the killswitch, so I'm not planning on writing such a script.

So, with that in mind I did one more setup and have had it testing for the past 13 hours with no issues, without the mangle rule. I believe I mistook this rule as the key to the success of this project when in fact I was probably doing something else wrong on earlier versions of this. Feel free to test it yourself.

```
In this rough diagram traffic travels clockwise:

                    PREROUTING - INPUT
                   /     |           \
NETWORK INTERFACES    FORWARD         LOCALHOST
                   \     |           /
                   POSTROUTINNG - OUTPUT
```

Test internet connectivity on host.


**Step 6:**

Configure DHCP server on the LAN:

`$ nano /etc/dnsmasq.conf`
  
Uncomment '#interface=' and assign to your LAN interface:

`interface=enp6s19`

Uncomment 'dhcp-range=.....' and adjust to your subnet, range, and lease time:

`dhcp-range=192.168.55.50,192.168.55.100,12h`

The dhcp-range should match the LAN subnet. 

Save and exit.
  
Test internet connectivity on host.

Check the client to make sure it is being assigned an ip address. Even though you won't have internet access from the client yet, it should be assigned an ip address at this point. 

`$ ip a`

Look for your lan interface and verify it has an address on your subnet(dhcp-range). If not, you may need to whitelist ports 67 and maybe 68 for dnsmasq to work. Thank you @Kenny606 for this tidbit. 

server port:

`$ nordvpn whitelist add port 67`

client port: (if still broken after whitelist port 67)

`$ nordvpn whitelist add port 68`


**Step 7:**

Enable ipv4 forwarding:

`$ nano /etc/sysctl.conf`

Uncomment 'inet.ipv4.ip_forward=1'
      
If you want to disable ipv6 add the following to the end of the file:
```
# Disable ipv6
net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6 = 1
```

Save and exit.

Test internet connectivity on host and client.


**Step 8:**

Enable killswitch and autoconnect:
```
$ nordvpn set killswitch on
$ nordvpn set autoconnect on
```

At this point you can see how the kill switch works by disconnecting the vpn `$ nordvpn d` and then testing on a client.


**Step 9:**

If all went well, you are done.

ENJOY!


## TIPS

These tips should be helpful for others like me who suffer from imanidiot syndrome flareups

If you can ping the LAN interface on the vpn but not beyond (WAN,internet,etc) from a client on the LAN:
1. open /etc/sysctl.conf and make sure you have umcommented/enabled net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
I personally have been guilty of going too fast and not reading, which caused me to uncomment the wrong ipv4 line.
I actually did that while following and editing this.
2. inspect your iptables rules on the vpn lxc/vm/machine, you should have 3 rules in your /etc/iptables/rules.v4 file. Double check your work in STEP 5.

If you can ping an ip address but not a domain name:
1. check your DNS settings. Double check your work up to STEP 3.
